docs/Gateway-Authentication.md, before:

# Gateway Authentication

## Goal

Restrict gateway access to authenticated users only as per configuration.

> **Note:** Gateway authentication is applicable for users trying to access the Gateway. It is not relevant for authentication requirements for upstream repositories. Upstream repositories can have authentication of their own.

## Requirements

- Global authentication across all upstreams / routes in the gateway
- Upstream specific authentication
- Support different types of authentication
  - RelayAuth - Relay the credentials to upstream repository
  - OpenID Connect (OIDC) - To support Github Actions OIDC and equivalent CI integration
  - AWS STS AssumeRole

### Limitation

Basic authentication as the only supported form of supplying credentials, since most package managers use basic authentication to authenticate with repositories.

We will not support fine grained *authorization* because we are in the data plane. We need to be minimalist for low latency and performance. Any need for limited authorization can be handled at policy level.

## Flow

![Authentication Flow](images/auth-flow.png)

Commit message:

Configuration Standardisation (#9)
* Add dependency confusion policy example

* Add config spec and doc

* Include metadata in artifact download request

* Add doc on gateway access

* Update config spec

* Add OTEL

* Enable OTEL for PDP

* Add obs span for pdp

* Add trace injection into logs

* Add span for check internal

* Add tap default response

* Allow adding span attributes

* Add config repository

* Add config generator

* Update config generator

* Standardise username within org segmentation

* Support projectId in username

* Add openssf scorecard integration

* Check scorecard before using

* Fix bug in response handling

* Refactor config handling

* Add messaging config spec

* Add service config to proto spec

* Fix bug with pypi upstream handling

* Migrate to spec based config model

* Refactor config to spec

* Refactor config to spec

* Add envoy config generator

* Add LB endpoint generator for envoy config

* Add internal service cluster

* Add route config for envoy

* Envoy config generator in working state

* Rename provider-env.go to provider_env.go

* Misc fix

* Update docker compose for generated config

* Add envoy access logger

* Remove replicas from docker compose

* Fix config docs

* Add validation rules for config proto

docs/Gateway-Authentication.md, after:

# Gateway Authentication

## Goal

Restrict gateway access to authenticated users only as per configuration.

> **Note:** Gateway authentication is applicable for users trying to access the Gateway. It is not relevant for authentication requirements for upstream repositories. Upstream repositories can have authentication of their own.

## Requirements

- Global authentication across all upstreams / routes in the gateway
- Upstream specific authentication
- Support different types of authentication
  - RelayAuth - Relay the credentials to upstream repository
  - OpenID Connect (OIDC) - To support Github Actions OIDC and equivalent CI integration
  - AWS STS AssumeRole

### Limitation

Basic authentication as the only supported form of supplying credentials, since most package managers use basic authentication to authenticate with repositories.

We will not support fine grained *authorization* because we are in the data plane. We need to be minimalist for low latency and performance. Any need for limited authorization can be handled at policy level.


## User Identification

An user authenticating to the gateway is essentially using the *data plane* of the system. The username can be used to segment / namespace gateway resources in a multi-user scenario. The following convention can be followed for username:

```
projectId/username@organization
```

This is a convention using which it is possible to access the gateway while conveying information required for the gateway to associate project and organization information to a gateway generated event, such as policy violation. This is required for auditing and traceability of generated events.

## Flow

![Authentication Flow](images/auth-flow.png)
